[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my fairly extensive review
of the 2015 edition of the Dell XPS 13
now I wanted to preface this review with
just a little bit of information about
myself I do not like desktops for the
past 10 years or so I've tried to do
everything I do on a notebook because I
don't like having two devices that can
do the same thing so occasionally I'll
buy the parts for a desktop put it
together and immediately regret doing it
because I just don't like having two
computers now every time anyone ever
asks me you know for the past 3-4 years
what notebook should I get I invariably
recommend the MacBook Air 13-inch just
because it's it's such a great notebook
in so many elements and if someone can
get used to OS X or if they like OS X I
think it's just a fantastic notebook so
yeah on with this review now you know
how I feel though Dells cardboard boxes
this computer came in yet again another
cardboard box but in a surprising turn
of events within this cardboard box was
a smaller black more premium looking box
which I thought was a nice touch let's
talk about the main design feature the
carbon fiber now I thought I wouldn't be
able to do it justice but surprisingly I
can actually capture the look of the
carbon fiber on camera and you can kind
of see the weave right I hope this shows
up you know how there's a little bit of
a weave you can see like the pattern now
it certainly looks like real carbon
fiber inside like when you touch it it's
got that like very subtle texture to it
but I don't know if it's actually real I
know Dell says it's real but I don't
know for sure and I don't really feel
like grinding down the resin to see if I
can actually reach the weave but you
know what if I had a few more subs I'd
do it I do it for you guys now covering
the carbon fiber is a soft touch rubbery
grippy stuff it feels really nice
actually and the hinge
over here has a similar soft touch to it
but without the carbon fiber underneath
the top of the notebook is aluminum
it feels pretty premium and it seems
like the inside of the Dell logo here is
filled with some kind of black plastic I
thought it was metal at first but if you
kind of give it a give it a couple
scratches it does feel like it's plastic
the bottom is also aluminum two rubber
feet kind of lined the length of the
notebook
I tried peeling off the adhesive just to
kind of see how strong it was and it
held pretty well it didn't peel off so
that's kind of nice I have had notebooks
in the past where after a few months of
usage start to peel so I don't think
this will be the case with this one
right in the middle of the back is this
hatch when I saw this hatch the first
thing I thought was wow this is gonna be
easy mode Ram upgrades but you want to
know what's behind this hatch here I'll
show you it basically opens up to a tiny
chamber of disappointment it's two
screws and some serial numbers I mean
like why didn't they build this hatch
why did they go through the elaborate
process of building this intricate metal
plate to cover two screws and some
serial numbers if any of you guys have
ideas as to what it was for please let
me know in the comments cuz I'm actually
pretty curious turns out you can't
upgrade RAM because it's soldered on to
the motherboard but you can upgrade the
SSD and then there's this vent so this
notebook vents the hotter directly
downwards instead of out the back so I
thought it might actually be an issue at
first because if you're using on your
lap you know this hot air is burning
your legs the whole time but I tried it
out and I'll discuss it later it's it's
actually not bad as it might seem so
when you turn the computer on there's a
power button that has a light the
battery status has lights and the AC
adapter has lights as well it's actually
a little different it's kind of shaped
like a ring it's kind of like curved
LEDs which is kind of nice and it
doesn't change colors in it's charging
statement so when you plug it in you
don't know if it's charging or not just
by looking at this LED you have to look
on your computer screen which isn't a
big deal
these lights stay on even when it's
unplugged but I actually found it useful
because you can find the adapter tip at
night so if it's like pitch dark and
you're looking for your AC adapter to
charge your computer you don't have to
turn on your light to stuff you just
look for these LEDs just pick up the the
tip and plug it in something else that
was kind of cool the prongs on the AC
adapter so it tucks in like most
but this one can also flip in two
directions so it can flip like this and
like this but I think the idea is that
if you ever have to share a power bar or
something with other devices you can
plug it in like this and I'll take up
less space something else I should have
mentioned earlier are the ports on the
machine
there's no HDMI and there's no Ethernet
which isn't a big deal and they also
have a dongle that you can buy to get
these ports back but it's just something
you should keep in mind when purchasing
it the weight of this thing is 2.6
pounds versus a MacBook Air which I
always thought was a really light
notebook that comes in at 2.96 pounds
so even though it's not a substantial
weight difference it's definitely
noticeable if you're looking for it if
you put them side-by-side you can kind
of see just how much smaller it is the
screen res I got with my configuration
was 1920 by 1080 there is a higher res
version that's 3200 by 1800 now that one
comes out a little bit of a higher price
but also a decrease the battery life the
screen I got in my configuration is
pretty good but it's nothing to write
home about one thing I did notice though
is if you're using the hardware buttons
the screen doesn't dim down all the way
so you know if you're at work and you're
like browsing reddit instead of doing
work and you kind of want to do more
screen down to pretend like your
computer's off well you can't do that
here there's a webcam at the bottom of
the screen which is a little weird at
first because it kind of catches you in
an unflattering angle it kind of looks
up your nose and it's like looking at
the ceiling but there's no other place
to put a webcam if you're gonna have a
bezel this thin so if you video chat
frequently or if you use it for work you
might want to get an external webcam the
keyboard is pretty cool it's got no flex
and it feels pretty nice it's chiclet
keys like a lot of notebooks and I think
everyone's opinion will vary on this but
unless you have really specific keyboard
needs I think you'll grow used to it and
you may even learn to like it okay
the trackpad there is a seriously
annoying problem with this trackpad but
it's something that I think Dell will
resolve shortly basically there's no
software or controller settings I could
find to adjust certain things about the
trackpad so for example the direction of
scroll right now if I'm moving my two
fingers down to scroll down it's
actually moving up
I just want to reverse that and also tap
to click I really don't like tap to
click when I type I find that I'm
constantly pressing the trackpad by
accident but even though it's really
annoying right now I think
non-issue shortly the trackpad itself
feels alright it's a little bit of a
sandy or a rougher texture than a
MacBook trackpad and the buttons are
ever so slightly harder to click the CPU
is new this year and I think it's one of
the first few notebooks to use Broadwell
but the performance gains as well as the
power savings are minimal at best if
you're looking for massive jump in
performance or power savings you're not
gonna find it here I played some games
mostly Blizzard games
I tried Diablo ran fine around 50 frames
per second remember this is only 1920 by
1080 recipe I want to pick up that super
high res 3200 by 1800 your performance
is gonna be a lot slower
I love Starcraft 2 but I'm pretty bad at
it I'm in gold League and I probably
shouldn't even be in there but I felt
very comfortable when I played it I was
getting around 50 frames per second and
keyboard actually felt pretty good Oh
Starcraft I love that game I want to
talk a little bit the temperatures and
sound signature of this notebook it gets
a little bit warm not super hot and the
fan kicks in pretty readily now I tried
gaming a little bit on my lap just
because I wanted to test how that bottom
vent would work so on my macbook air the
vent faces away from the computer so
it's kind of when you when it's sitting
in your lap the vent is kind of facing
in the same direction that I'm looking
at it pushes the air seems to push
outwards but this thing seems to be
pushing straight down so I played a game
of Starcraft and it got pretty warm on
my lap but I started to lose and I was
like I can't lose this game so I put her
back on the desk I ended up losing
anyways so it kind of sucked freaking
Starcraft I hate that game in terms of
the fan sound it's really silent when
it's idle it was running around like
2025 decibels during games and the fans
kick in it gets around 45 decibels
so it's audible but it's definitely not
annoying the speakers seem to be pretty
loud for a notebook this size now I know
this is subjective so I'm just gonna
play a song at maximum volume within the
three different notebooks
you
okay let's talk battery life Dell
advertises this thing to have a 15 hour
battery life which is even greater than
the 13-inch MacBook Air so the first
thing I did when I got home I charged it
up and I let it drain down and I just
used some casual web browsing and I was
getting about nine and a half hours so I
was doing Windows was doing updates at
the time so I feel like it wasn't a fair
test I charged it up again
Randy ran it down again got ten and a
half hours this time and this is because
I had lowered the screen brightness a
little bit to like 60 70 percent so I
thought this is impossible how is Dell
saying that they can get 15 hours from
this thing so I actually tried I
basically I turned off Bluetooth I just
browsed like reddit with no youtubing
and screen brightness was that like 30%
and only then could I even stretch it
out to 12 hours just a little bit over
12 hours and then after it ran out of
batteries I thought what am i doing this
is this is not how you use a computer I
feel I felt like I was drinking Internet
from a tiny little teacup so this is not
how the Internet should be used this is
not how Dell should be advertising their
battery power so maybe just the battery
needs time to kind of tune up or tune in
or whatever but I'm not - I'm not too
pleased with this 15 hour proclamation
so far something else no I got7 half
hours watching Breaking Bad directly
from my hard drive yeah just straight up
movies seven half hours I think you'll
get about 10 or 11 hours of realistic
use which is still pretty good
considering that's more than a full
workday but it's still a little shy from
the 15 hours that was advertised so I'm
a little bit bummed about that asked for
my overall thoughts on this thing I
think Dell did an amazing job they hit
it out of the park because this is a
carbon-fibre notebook at $1000 now this
the configuration I got was the 128 gig
drive eight gigs of ram in the i5 with
as I mentioned before the 1920 1080
screen so at that price point to get the
materials that they've put into this and
the finish that they've put into this is
really good so I think it's a good value
and I would recommend this to basically
anyone who asked me for a notebook
recommendation right now in early
20:15 I'm pretty sure Dell will be
putting out a 2015 version of the XPS 15
and I'll be sure to do a review of that
when it comes out and yeah I hope you
guys liked this review it was really
long I hope it wasn't too long but I
feel like a notebook of this caliber
really deserved a pretty extensive
review so I hope you guys enjoyed I did
it was nice I'll see you guys next time